ConnectX Alpha-Beta Pruning Agent


Purpose
This project implements an improved bot for the Kaggle ConnectX competition using heuristic-based strategies, dynamic depth adjustment, and alpha-beta pruning. The agent is designed to evaluate the game state and make optimal moves within the constraints of computational efficiency, aiming for a competitive performance in the Kaggle leaderboard.


Key Objectives:
1. Implement an optimized heuristic-based bot that uses advanced strategies like:
    - Alpha-beta pruning to enhance minimax search efficiency.
    - Dynamic depth adjustment based on the game state.
    - Refined heuristics to balance offensive and defensive play.
2. Ensure the agent can handle the game effectively with limited computation time while maximizing its performance.
3. Generate a fully functional, self-contained submission.py file for the Kaggle competition.


Agents Implemented
In this final phase of the project, we focused on enhancing the heuristic-based approach of minimax by implementing Alpha-Beta pruning:
- Alpha-Beta Pruning Agent:
    - Utilizes a minimax algorithm with alpha-beta pruning to optimize the decision-making process.
    - Adapts the search depth dynamically based on the number of empty cells in the game board.
    - Employs an advanced heuristic to evaluate game states:
        - Rewards moves that create winning opportunities.
        - Penalizes moves that allow opponents to win.
        - Encourages control of the center column and other strategic positions.


Files Included:
  - Alpha_Beta.py: The main Python file containing the implementation of the alpha-beta pruning agent.
  - submission.py: The file that will be generated for submission to the Kaggle competition after training.
  - requirements.txt: A list of dependencies required to run the project.


Setup Instructions
Step 1: Ensure that the following dependencies are installed before running the project:
    1. Python: Make sure Python is installed. You can download it from here: https://www.python.org/downloads/.
    2. Kaggle Environments: Install this dependency to simulate the ConnectX environment.
        Run the following command:
            pip install kaggle-environments

Step 2: Download the Project
    Clone or download this repository to your local machine.

Step 3: Install Dependencies - requirements.txt
    Locate the requirements.txt file in the directory for this project. Go to the terminal and make sure you are in that same directory.
    Next, run the command "pip install -r requirements.txt" to install all package dependencies. After doing so, you should now be able to work with the files included.

Step 4: Run the Agents
    To run the enhanced agent, run the following command:
        Type "python Alpha_Beta.py" into the terminal to run it OR
        Run the file by pressing the 'Run Code' button, usually located in the upper right-hand corner of your IDE, if it is supported.


Generating the Submission File:
  - After training, the script will generate a submission.py file that can be uploaded to the Kaggle competition. This file contains the fully self-contained agent, including all necessary imports and helper functions.


How to Submit to Kaggle
Once the training is complete and submission.py is generated:
1. Go to the Kaggle ConnectX competition page. (https://www.kaggle.com/competitions/connectx#)
2. Upload the submission.py file as your entry.
3. The platform will evaluate your bot against other submissions.


Generating and Running HTML to Visualize the Game Locally
To visualize the game in your browser, you can generate HTML code using the environment render method. Here’s how:
    1. Uncomment the following code in any of the agent files (Default_Given.py, One_Step_Lookahead.py, etc.), which is located 13-14 lines above the bottom:
        htmloutput = env.render(mode="html")
        print(htmloutput)
    2. Run the file. The HTML code will be output to the terminal.
    3. Copy the HTML code:
        Select the terminal window and press CTRL-A to select all the text, then copy it.
    4. Paste the HTML code into a new HTML file (PyCharm and VSCode both support HTML documents).
    5. Clean the HTML file:
        Delete all lines above the line starting with <!DOCTYPE html> (this line must remain, as it is the start of the HTML document).
        Delete a few lines at the bottom, ensuring that the last line in the file is </html>.
    6. Run the HTML file:
        In PyCharm, hover your mouse over the top-right corner of the file, and you should see an option to launch the document in your browser.
        In VSCode, go to the "Run" button in the top-left corner and select "Run Without Debugging."
This should launch the game in your default browser, allowing you to visualize the gameplay.


Acknowledgments
This project was developed using resources from the Kaggle ConnectX competition. The reinforcement learning tutorials by Alexis Cook and contributions from the Kaggle community were instrumental in guiding the development of the DRL agent.
For more details about Kaggle ConnectX, visit their page here: https://www.kaggle.com/competitions/connectx.


License
This project incorporates code provided by Kaggle.
  Copyright 2020 Kaggle Inc
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at
      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.


This README file and programs associated were produced with help and guidance from ChatGPT.